# 什么是翻译单元

> In C and C++ programming language terminology, a translation unit (or more casually a compilation unit) is the ultimate input to a C or C++ compiler from which an object file is generated. A translation unit roughly consists of a source file after it has been processed by the C preprocessor, meaning that header files listed in #include directives are literally included, sections of code within #ifndef may be included, and macros have been expanded. -- Wikipedia

> A translation unit is the smallest unit of code that can be compiled separately. What this unit is, depends primarily on the language: For example, a Java translation unit is a single source file, while a C or C++ translation unit is a source file plus all the other files (such as headers) that the source file includes.

> A program consists of one or more translation units. A translation unit consists of an implementation file and all the headers that it includes directly or indirectly. Implementation files typically have a file extension of .cpp or .cxx. Header files typically have an extension of .h or .hpp. Each translation unit is compiled independently by the compiler. -- Microsoft Learn

对于C/C++语言来说，编译是源代码到可执行程序的必不可少的步骤，经过编译，源代码生成目标文件（object file）。**翻译单元**就是可以单独编译的最小的代码单元，由一个实现文件，以及实现文件中间接或直接包含的头文件组成。实现文件可以是`.cpp`或`.cxx`文件，头文件可以是`.h`文件或`.hpp`文件等。

## 参考

[Translation unit (programming) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translation_unit_(programming))

[Definition of Translation Unit](https://community.synopsys.com/s/article/Definition-of-Translation-Unit)

[c++ faq - What is a "translation unit" in C++? - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1106149/what-is-a-translation-unit-in-c)

[Translation units and linkage (C++) | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/cpp/program-and-linkage-cpp?view=msvc-170)